>> Kyle: Immutability.
Now this is a topic that
gets glossed over a lot.
So we wanna make sure we pay
close attention to this.
And in particular,
one of the things that I get kind of
frustrated about is that when
people throw around this word.
They could mean one of at least
two different things, but
they're not very often very clear
about what is being discussed.
So, let's make sure we understand first
why immutability is important, but
then, what kind of immutability
are we talking about?
So, immutability is the idea, obviously,
that the word implies that
something isn't going to change.
But that doesn't fully encompass
what we're talking about.
It's not just that things don't change,
it's that things don't
change unexpectedly.
There is obviously in our
programs a lot of state change,
that is the whole point of our programs
is for state to change over time and
state change being the point.
You don't want to stop
that from happening.
There's really no such thing as like
making an immutable program because
that program wouldn't have any point.
There'd be no reason for that program
to exist if nothing could change.
So really, this idea of immutability is
it's broken in our brains or it's miswired
in our brains when we think about it
in terms of things that can't change.
That's not really the point.
Really, the point of immutability
is that change that needs to occur
needs to be intentional.
It shouldn't be accidental, it shouldn't
be happening without us being aware,
happening at different times,
creating race conditions.
All those sorts of things.
So immutability is this concept
of how do we control mutation?
How do we control change?
And I said there's two different
kinds of immutability that we want to
pay attention to.
So the first of those is
assignment immutability.
Assignment immutability is the idea that
when you assign something to a variable or
to a property,
that it is no longer allowed to be
reassigned to some other value.
And this is often a big
deal is often made of this.
In fact, you'll know we talked earlier
in the course about the const keyword.
This idea that if I create a variable
that can't be reassigned to,
that I've somehow prevented
myself from having bugs.
So let's dig into that.
Let's talk about assignment immutability.
If I declare basePrice as we are on
line one with a var declaration,
and then shipping cost
with a const declaration.
They are both variables.
Variable is sort of a weird word here
because for a const that can't vary, but
it is a placeholder for a value.
It is a symbolic representation in memory,
so that's why we call it still a variable.
Except there's a difference
between these two,
which is how they're going
to handle reassignment.
Where they've all declared or
even let, if you choose to reassign it
to a different value later which
is what's happening on line six.
No problem of course,
everything works fine.
But if you try to reassign something
that is declared as a const,
you get an error saying
that's not allowed.
It's not allowed for
you to change or to reassign.
As a matter of fact, we really
need to get into the word change.
Because the word change implies that we're
changing something about the value itself,
and we're not really changing the value.
basePrice is not being,
it's value is not being changed.
It's value is being reassigned.
We're creating a whole new
value with that plus operation,
the value 94.99, and we're assigning
that new value into basePrice.
And the reason why that's important is
there are values which can be mutated.
A number, for example, can't be mutated.
You can't ever change 3.14
into anything other than 3.14.
It just is that.
Same thing with strings.
You can't take the string hello world and
modify one of the characters
inside of that string.
That isn't a thing that you can do.
Those values are sort of
inherently immutable.
They are primitive values
that can't really be changed.
So we're not changing the value.
We're reassigning the value in basePrice.
We're creating a new value
from an operation, and
assigning it into basePrice.
And when we try to do the same thing on
line ten, we get an error saying, no,
that's not allowed for you to reassign.
That's what the error means,
you can't assign to a consts variable
other than at the first time.
And by the way,
just a little note on const.
This is sometimes overlooked.
You cannot declare a consts
without assigning it a value.
So you can't say like const shippingCost,
and then later,
in that same block of code,
give it its first assignment.
Because actually, that would mean
observing it in two different value
states, one where it was undefined and
then one where it was defined to a value.
And they took great pains to prevent
you from observing a variable in
this sort of two-state or
a const in this two-state situation.
Matter of fact, if you've heard, you may
have read a blog post about something it's
called the temporal dead zone, TDZ.
And temporal dead zone is all about
preventing us from seeing a const ever
be in this weird, in-between, or this gray
area state where it was undefined and
now it's been defined to a variable.
So that we've taken great pains to ensure
that you have to assign it that value and
then you can't resign it later.
Now I've heard many explanations for
why we should use a const in our programs.
And a matter of fact,
some of the most behemoth support for
the const keyword comes from the
functional programming community that does
JavaScript programming.
They feel like this is a big boon,
it's a big improvement to
the language to have a const keyword.
I'm not convinced that it
really does provide the value
that it assumes to provide.
And I wanna dig into why I'm not
really convinced about that.
So if we think about this code,
there's another way of avoiding this
problem of assignment or reassignment.
And this is actually how functional
programmers prefer to work.
If you think about the argument that
a functional programmer makes which says,
I don't want my variable to
get reassigned accidentally.
So I always declare everything with const,
that's the typical line,
that's the typical statement.
But then they don't actually
assign many variables anyway.
Most of the time, I mean this is
called functional programming for
a reason, because most of the time,
we're not doing assignment statements.
Most of the time values are being
passed to functions and
coming back from other functions.
So if you see what's happening here,
I can compute the new basePrice or
the new shippingCost by simply passing
the existing value to a function.
Computing it and having that return
value come back, and I can or
cannot decide to assign that
value to some variable.
But those are separate questions.
The computation of a new value versus
the assignment to another variable.
They're separate questions.
And as a matter of fact,
most functional programmers tell you,
try to avoid assignment at all costs.
You'll see long strings of composition
where a function goes to another function,
and then it goes here, and here,
and here, and here, and here.
Because heaven forbid,
we assign it to a variable temporarily and
then use that variable later.
We want to avoid that at all costs.
So one of the questions that comes up
in my mind when I hear a functional
programmer say.
No, no, no const,
you should absolutely only use const is,
do you really even care
that much about const?
You don't even like to do assignments
if you're a functional programmer.
So that's one of the reasons why
I sort of suspect of, or I'm sort
of in doubt of whether or not it's really
bringing that much benefit to the table.